.\"
.de CO
\fB\\$1\fP \fI\\$2\fP
..
.TH AMDD 8
.SH NAME
amdd \- Amanda version of dd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amdd
[
.B -d
]
[
.B if=\fIinput
]
[
.B of=\fIoutput
]
[
.B bs=\fIblocksize
]
[
.B skip=\fIcount
]
[
.B count=\fIcount
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Amdd
provides just enough of the standard
.UX
.B dd
command for the needs of Amanda.
This is handy when doing a full restore and the standard
.B dd
program has not yet been found.
.LP
.B Amdd
also provides access to the Amanda output drivers that support
various tape simulations.
This may be used for debugging or to convert from one format
to another.
.LP
See the
.IR amanda (8)
man page for more details about Amanda.
See the
.B OUTPUT DRIVERS
section of
.I amanda(8)
for more information on the Amanda output drivers.
.SH OPTIONS
.de BS
\fB\\$1\fP\ \fR\\$2\fP
..
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on debugging output.
.TP
.BI \-l length
Set the output length.
If the output driver limits the output size, this controls
when end of tape will be simulated.
.IP
.I Length
may have a multiplier suffix:
.RS
.IP
.BS k 1024\ (Kilobytes)
.IP
.BS b 512\ (Blocks)
.IP
.BS M 1024*1024\ (Megabytes)
.RE
.IP
The default is no multipler (bytes).
.TP
.B if=\fIinput
Input to
.BR dd .
Default is stdin.
.TP
.B of=\fIoutput
Where to send the output of
.BR dd .
Default is stdout.
.TP
.B bs=\fIblocksize
Size of each record.
Input records smaller than this will
.I not
be padded.
Output records will be the same size as the corresponding input record.
Default is 512 bytes.
.IP
.I Blocksize
may have a multiplier suffix:
.RS
.IP
.BS k 1024\ (Kilobytes)
.IP
.BS b 512\ (Blocks)
.IP
.BS M 1024*1024\ (Megabytes)
.RE
.IP
The default is no multipler (bytes).
.TP
.B count=\fIcount
Number of records to copy.
Default is all records until end of file.
.TP
.B skip=\fIcount
Number of records to skip before copying input to output.
Default is zero.
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Mengel <mengel@fnal.gov>
.br
John R. Jackson <jrj@purdue.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
amanda(8)
