.\"
.de CO
\fB\\$1\fP \fI\\$2\fP
..
.TH AMMT 8
.SH NAME
ammt \- Amanda version of mt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ammt
[
.B -d
]
[
.B -f|-t
.I device
]
.B command
[
.I count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ammt
provides just enough of the standard
.UX
.B mt
command for the needs of Amanda.
This is handy when doing a full restore and the standard
.B mt
program has not yet been found.
.LP
.B Ammt
also provides access to the Amanda output drivers that support
various tape simulations.
.LP
See the
.IR amanda (8)
man page for more details about Amanda.
See the
.B OUTPUT DRIVERS
section of
.I amanda(8)
for more information on the Amanda output drivers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on debugging output.
.TP
.BI \-f \ device
Access tape device
.IR device .
If not specified, the
.B TAPE
environment variable is used.
.TP
.BI \-t \ device
Same as
.BR -f .
.TP
.BI command \ count
Which command to issue, and an optional count of operations.
.SH COMMANDS
Each command may be abbreviated to whatever length makes it unique.
.TP
.BI eof|weof \ count
Write
.I count
(default: 1)
end of file marks (tapemarks).
.TP
.BI fsf \ count
Skip forward
.I count
(default: 1)
files.
.TP
.BI bsf \ count
Skip backward
.I count
(default: 1)
files.
.TP
.BI asf \ count
Position to file number
.I count
(default: 0)
where zero is beginning of tape.
This is the same as a
.B rewind
followed by a
.B fsf
.IR count .
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind to beginning of tape.
.TP
.B offline|rewoffl
Rewind to beginning of tape and unload the tape from the drive.
.TP
.BI status
Report status information about the drive.
Which data reported,
and what it means,
depends on the underlying operating system,
and may include:
.RS
.TP
ONLINE
Indicates the drive is online and ready.
.TP
OFFLINE
Indicates the drive is offline or not ready.
.TP
BOT
Indicates the drive is at beginning of tape.
.TP
EOT
Indicates the drive is at end of tape.
.TP
PROTECTED
Indicates the tape is write protected.
.TP
ds
Device status.
.TP
er
Error register.
.TP
fileno
Current tape file number.
.TP
blkno
Current tape block number file.
.RE
.IP
NOTE: many systems only report good data when a tape is in the drive and ready.
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Mengel <mengel@fnal.gov>
.br
John R. Jackson <jrj@purdue.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
amanda(8)
